Manufacturing
EIT Manufacturing was established
in 2019 with a vision that global
innovation led
manufacturing will continue to be led
by Europe. It does so by translating
by Europe
scientific advances into marketable
innovations and connecting fragmented
networks into a thriving ecosystem.
Ultimately, faster innovation can improve
everyday life, help meet Europe’s climate
goals, and ensure that its workforce
eitmanufacturing.eu
is ready for tomorrow’s challenges.
European industry High-value challenges
A strong innovative industry is core to Europe is the birthplace of industrial production and
ensuring European prosperity and meeting it continues to power the region’s prosperity. EIT
EU goals for the economy, society and the Manufacturing’s strategy is designed to ensure that
environment. European industry is able to continuously innovate and is
prepared to meet the ongoing green and digital transitions.
This is achieved by accelerating the rate at which
scientific advances can be turned into marketable
innovations by focusing on solutions with high technology-
readiness levels. Emerging technologies such as robotics,
35M 20%
artificial intelligence (AI) and additive manufacturing
are making it possible to radically transform production
processes, cut waste and better support workers. The
jobs of total EU
majority of EIT Manufacturing’s operational budget –
value added
roughly € 400 Million until 2026 – is dedicated to funding
projects that turn research into industry-ready solutions.
To ensure that innovations reach the market, industry
has the right talent and entrepreneurs can thrive, EIT
80% 99%
Manufacturing connects and integrates the areas of
education, innovation and business creation. Meanwhile, EIT
Manufacturing’s Regional Innovation Scheme is designed to
of exports of European firms overcome disparities between regions by strengthening the
are SME’s
local innovation ecosystems in countries that are moderate
or modest innovators through dedicated programmes and
A new Industrial strategy for a globally competitive, green strengthening links between key innovation actors.
and digital Europe, European Commission, March 2020.GGooaallss bbyy 22003300 Linking key regions
EIT Manufacturing’s Co-Location Centers (CLCs) are
30% of material use is circular
strategically located to link regions with high levels
of manufacturing activity and advanced technology.
60% of production uses sustainable practices
Create 360 new solutions
Headquarters Paris
CLC North Gothenburg
€325M investment attracted by EIT ventures CLC Central Darmstadt
CLC West San Sebastian
EIT Manufacturing is
CLC East Vienna
50,000 people trained and up- or re-skilled
CLC South Milan
an innovation community
Create and support 1,000 startups
OEITn Mea npuofawctuerirnfgu isl E eurcoopes’sy lesatdeinmg a pan-European perspective and a balanced
manufacturing community. It is the newest of group of world-class stakeholders. Currently, EIT
8 innovation communities belonging to EIT, the Manufacturing has over 65 members and aims to
EIT Manufacturing connects diverse networks and expertise
tEhuart oarpee easnse Inntisatl ittou itned uosft rIinaln inonvoavatitoionn .a Tnhrdo uTgehc ihtsn foolcougs y. have 170 members by 2027.
oTnh eed cucoamtiomn,u EnITi tMieasn uafraect upruinbgl isce-epkrsi tvoa etme ppoawretrn Eeurrsohpeip s,
wpaitrht plye ofpinlea tnhacte adr eb cya pEaIbTl,e aanndd inpsaprirtelyd tboy s hitasp ep tahret ners. The partnership covers the entire product
future of manufacturing. Its Innovation pillar supports the
This includes some of Europe’s leading lifecycle from (1) concept and design, to (2)
European manufacturing community of companies and tech
enterprises research organisations. manufacturing and maintenance, and finally (3)
organisations to industrialise innovative projects. While the
recycling and de-manufacturing. Both B2B and
Business Creation team empowers high-growth, profitable
Governance B2C partners are incorporated to accelerate
companies with a positive social impact.
EIT EMIT aMnaunfuafaccttuurriinngg’s i psa ortpneerns htiop ceonvetirtsi ethse fernotmire innovation at all stages of the product and
parnoydu ccot ulifnectyrcyl ee. lIitg inibcllued feos ro vfeurn 6d5i nmge munbedres rfr tohme l eEaUdi’nsg equipment lifecycle. This is an overview of
icnudrursetrnyt p flaryaemrse, uwniovrekrs iptireosg arnadm remseaer cfho rin rsetistuetaiorncsh. members as of April 2021:
and innovation (i.e. Horizon Europe) ensuring
Headquarters
Paris-Saclay
@EITManufactur Nano-INNOV
@EITManufacturing 2 Boulevard Thomas Gobert
eitmanufacturing 91120 Palaiseau, France